- [Instructor] So, we've talked at a high
level about the decorator and how it's used.
Let's jump into code and take a
look at its actual implementation.
We're going to start with our base package in scr/main/java.
And we're going to create a new package.
This time, called decorator.
Now, one of the easiest examples to use
of a decorator is the concept of a pizza.
And that's what we're going to do.
So, we will create a class of Name: Pizza.
And we will make that class abstract.
Now, we're going to add a protected
string on here, called description.
And then we will create a public string,
getDescription method, that will return that description.
Then we're going to put a public abstract method,
that returns a BigDecimal, called getCost.
Okay.
So, now we've got our pizza.
So, let's create a concrete instance of a pizza.
And we will create a ThickCrustPizza.
Now, we're going to extend Pizza here.
And we will create a public ThickCrustPizza constructor.
And now, we will implement our method of getCost.
And we will simply return a new BigDecimal.
In this case, we will return 15.00.
So, now we're going to make our decorator itself.
And in this case, the only way to
decorate a pizza is with ingredients.
So, we will create a class, called PizzaIngredient.
And this will extend Pizza.
We will create a public abstract method,
that returns a string, called getDescription.
'Cause we're not ready to implement that yet.
We also need to make our class abstract.
So, now our decorator itself is actually ready to be used.
So, let's create my favorite topping on a pizza...
Which is pepperoni.
Now, Pepperoni will extend PizzaIngredient.
We'll implement some methods here.
And we will start out with a constructor.
And the constructor is going to take a pizza.
And that pizza is going to be stored on this object.
So, in our constructor, we will call super.
And this.pizza,
= pizza.
So, now we've stored it.
So, to our description,
we will return this.pizza.getDescription,
Plus.
And then we're going to say, plus pepperoni.
So, if you remember, on our ThickCrustPizza,
we said that was a ThickCrustPizza.
This way, the text will make sense.
And now, for the cost.
So, we will return a new BigDecimal.
And we're going to charge 1.50 per topping.
And we will add that to this.pizza.getCost.
And now we're good to go. So, let's create a test for this.
We'll go down to src/test/java.
Base package.
Create a new package down here, called decorator.
And in the decorator, we will create a
new Java class, called DecoratorTest.
So, @Test.
Public void.
TestDecorator.
So, what we've done here, is we've created a pizza.
We're putting on its description and its cost.
Now, we're going to create a pepperoni pizza.
And we will pass our original pizza.
And we're going to do the same thing.
Copy those two values.
And now we're going to do one more.
In this case, we're going to do a doublePepperoni.
And this time, we're going to pass our pepperoni pizza to it.
Copy these two statements one more time.
And bring in the double.
And now, we'll run our test.
So, as you might expect,
we created the first ThickCrustPizza.
We then decorated it with pepperoni.
We then took that pepperoni pizza and
decorated it with another round of pepperoni.
The cost has been adjusted.
The text has been adjusted.
Each and every time.
And now, if we added other ingredients we could
do the same thing until we got to the supreme.